.TH CKCONFIG 8
.\" @(#) $Header: /xtel/pp/pp-beta/man/man8/RCS/ckconfig.8,v 6.0 1991/12/18 20:44:03 jpo Rel $
.\"
.\" $Log: ckconfig.8,v $
.\" Revision 6.0  1991/12/18  20:44:03  jpo
.\" Release 6.0
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
ckconfig \- configuration checker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
ckconfig
\%[\-f] \%[\-v] \%[\-n] \%[-t\ tailor]
.in -.5i
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I ckconfig
tool checks various configuration details of the PP message system.
.TP
1.
It checks that all the required directories are in place.
If a directory is missing, the user will be prompted for the creation
of the directory.
.TP
2.
It checks that all the channels mentioned in the tailor file
reference existing executables in the correct directory (\fIchndfldir\fP).
If a channel is the filtercontrol channel running a specified filter,
it checks that the channel references an existing executable filter in
the correct directory (\fIformdfldir\fP).
.TP
3.
It checks that all the tables mentioned in the tailor file
reference existing files in the correct directory (\fItbldfldir\fP).
.TP
4.
There are certain channels and tables that the PP system
refers to by explicit, known names.
\fIckconfig\fP checks to see if these names have an appropriate entry
in the tailor file.
.PP
\fIckconfig\fP responds to the following flags
.TP
\-v
Verbose Mode.
Switches the output to verbose mode, displaying correct
as well as incorrect configuration details.
By default, ckconfig only displays incorrect configuration details.
.TP
\-f
Force Mode.
Switches of any prompting to the user.
Thus able to run independent of a user.
.TP
\-n
No Execution Mode.
Displays incorrect configuration details and what can be done to
correct them, but does not attempt correction.
.TP
\-t tailor
check the given tailor file rather than the system default one.
.SH FILES
PP tailor file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIThe PP Manual: Volume 1 \- Installation and Operation\fP

