.TH LCONSOLE 8
.\" @(#) $Header: /xtel/pp/pp-beta/man/man8/RCS/lconsole.8,v 6.0 1991/12/18 20:44:03 jpo Rel $
.\"
.\" $Log: lconsole.8,v $
.\" Revision 6.0  1991/12/18  20:44:03  jpo
.\" Release 6.0
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
lconsole \- line based MTA console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
lconsole \%[\-Q\ mta] \%[\-u\ user] \%[\-p\ passwd] \%[\-b] \%[actions...]
.in -.5i
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lconsole
is a simple interface to the qmgr providing low functionality but
provides access to all the controlling and monitoring functions.
.PP
The options are:
.TP
\-Q mta
Connect to this mta by default on start up.
.TP
\-u user
Connect as this user to the mta, a password will be prompted for.
.TP
\-p passwd
Supply a password to connect to the mta. (This is not generally
recommended)
.TP
\-b
Run in batch mode (no prompting).
.PP
All other arguments on the command line are taken as an operation to
perform. If no actions are supplied the \fIlconsole\fP takes commands
from the standard input.
.PP
The possible commands are:
.nf
.sp
.ta \w'rereadqueue\0\0'u
?	- provide help.
channel	- display channels or one channel.
clear	- clear the delay on a channel, mta or msg.
close	- close the association with a qmgr.
decrease	- decrease the number of runnable channels.
delay	- add a deley to a channel, mta or msg.
disable	- disable a channel, mta or message.
enable	- enable a channel, mta or msg.
help	- provide help.
increase	- increase the number of runnable channels.
msg	- show details of messages.
mta	- show details of mtas.
open	- open a connection to a qmgr.
quit	- terminate the program.
rereadqueue 	- initiate a queue refresh.
restart	- restart the qmgr.
show	- show certain matching messages.
shutdown	- shutdown the qmgr.
source	- read in a file of commands.
status	- show the status of the qmgr.
.sp
.fi
When displaying channels, messages and mtas, a regular expression is
used to choose the messages. Where a command takes a channel as an
argument, a regular expression resolving to a unique channel may be used.
.SH FILES
None
.SH "SEE ALSO"
MTAconsole(8)
.br
\fIThe PP Manual: Volume 1 \- Installation and Operation\fP
.SH BUGS
Should have more defaulting.
