.TH CONSOLE 8
.\" @(#) $Header: /xtel/pp/pp-beta/man/man8/RCS/MTAconsole.8,v 6.0 1991/12/18 20:44:03 jpo Rel $
.\"
.\" $Log: MTAconsole.8,v $
.\" Revision 6.0  1991/12/18  20:44:03  jpo
.\" Release 6.0
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
console \- qmgr monitor and controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
console
\%[-Q\ host] \%[-N] \%[-r\ time] \%[-c\ number] \%[-m\ number] 
\%[-v\ number] \%[-o\ time]
.in -.5i
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I console
tool enables a user to connect to, monitor and control a qmgr.
The console runs on top of the X windowing system.
.PP
The \fIconsole\fP responds to various command line flags.
.TP
\-Q host
The default host.
The console attempts to automatically connect to the Qmgr on the given host.
WARNING this may take a lot of time!
.TP
\-N
Turn off confirmation popups for the quit and disconnect command buttons.
.TP
\-r time
The amount of time between automatic refreshes of the display.
By default, this time interval is five minutes.
The time should be a console time string with no whitespace between
elements of the string (i.e 5m or 5h3m2s).
.TP
\-c number
The number of colours used in the display.
The default is ten.
.PP
The following flags affect the heuristics used to determine the
comparitive states of different channels, mtas or messages.
.TP
\-m number
The highest number of messages on a channel or mta.
Any channel or mta with more than this number is deemed to be in
serious trouble.
The default value is 50.
.TP
\-v number
The largest volume of messages on a channel or mta.
Any channel or mta with a volume greater than this is deemed to be in
serious trouble.
The default value is 10000.
.TP
\-o time
The oldest message allowed.
Any message older than this time or channel or mta containing a
message older than this is deemed to be in serious trouble.
The time should be given as a console time string with no intervening
whitespace (e.g 2w5d).
The default age is  four weeks.
.SH FILES
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH BUGS
