.TH PP-GEN 8 "25 Nov 1989"
.\" @(#) $Header: /xtel/pp/pp-beta/man/man8/RCS/pp-gen.8,v 6.0 1991/12/18 20:44:03 jpo Rel $
.\"
.\" $Log: pp-gen.8,v $
.\" Revision 6.0  1991/12/18  20:44:03  jpo
.\" Release 6.0
.\"$
.\"
.ds VD pp\-6.0/
.ds VN 6.0
.ds Iv 7.0
.SH NAME
pp\-gen \- generating the PP message system
.PP
You should read over this entire document first,
before typing any commands.
.SH "READ THIS"
This documentation describes how to configure, generate, and install the
PP message system. It is intended only as a quick guide. The full
details are in the PP documentation set - \fIPP Manual$
Installation and Operation\fP. This can be found in the
\fBdoc/manual/volume1\fP directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
make
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a description of how one can bring up the PP message system.
It is assumed that you have super-user privileges in order to (re-)install
the software.
Super-user privileges are not required to configure or generate this
software.
.PP
PP is normally installed with most programs and directories owned by a
single user. Conventionally this username is \*(lqpp\*(rq and is not a
normal user id but this is not required. You should normally do most
of the compilation and configuration as this user.
.PP
The distribution tape contains the hierarchy for the \fB\*(VD\fR directory.
Bring the sources on-line by changing to a directory for local sources and
running tar as the pp username you have chosen, e.g.:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
% cd /usr/src/local/
% tar xf \fItarfile\fP
% cd \*(VD
.fi
.in -.5i
.SH CONFIGURATION
First, go to the \fBconfig/\fR directory:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
% cd config
.fi
.in -.5i
.PP
Select the Makefile and include-file skeletons which most closely match
your system.
The current choices are:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
.ta \w'ultrix\0\0'u
sun	Fairly standard sun configuration
vax	Fairly standard vax configuration
s5r4	System Five, release 4
hpux	Hewlet Packard
.sp
\fImore samples welcome\fP
.re
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp
The makefile skeleton has the extension \fB.make\fR,
and the include-file skeleton has the extension \fB.h\fR.
.SS MAKEFILE
Copy the makefile skeleton of your choice to \fBpickle.make\fR,
where \*(lqpickle\*(rq is the name of your system.
Now edit this file to set the \fImake\fR variables.
There are many of these, please refer to \fIThe PP Manual: Volume 1 \-
Installation and Operation\fP. However, some of the more obvious
variables are documented in \fB./OPTIONS.make\fP.
.PP
Link \fBpickle.make\fR to \fBMake.defs\fR in the base directory.
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
% ln pickle.make ../Make.defs
.re
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp
.SS INCLUDE\-FILE
Copy the include-file skeleton of your choice to \fBpickle.h\fR,
where \*(lqpickle\*(rq is the name of your system.
Now add any additional definitions you may need.
Consult the file \fB./OPTIONS.h\fR for a list.
.PP
Now, link \fBpickle.h\fR to \fB../h/config.h\fR.
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
% ln pickle.h ../h/config.h
.re
.fi
.in -.5i
.SH GENERATION
It is assumed that you have ISODE \*(Iv installed on the machine in
question, including the X.500 libraries \fB\-ldsap \-lisode\fP. If you
wish to build the grey book channels for JANET mail, you should first
build and install the unix-niftp package.
.PP
Go to the \fB\*(VD\fR directory and generate the basic system:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
% cd ..
% ./make
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp
.PP
This will cause a complete generation of the system.  If all goes
well, proceed with the installation.  If not, complain, as there
\*(lqshould be no problems\*(rq at this step.  It may be worth saving
the output of the make stage in a file in case things do go wrong.
.SH INSTALLATION
You will need to be the super-user to install the software.  There are
two kinds of activities: once-only activities that you perform the
first time the software is installed; and each-time activities that
you perform every time the software is installed.
.PP
The first once-only activity is to create the necessary basic
directories to install the commands. This is done by issuing the
command as super-user:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
# su
# ./make dirs
.re
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp
Note that the pp user id needs to have been allocated at this point.
.PP
The second once-only activity is to make sure that PP will run when
when the machine goes multi-user.  On Berkeley UNIX systems, add
something along these lines to the \fB/etc/rc.local\fR file:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
if [ \-f /usr/lib/pp/pp.start ]; then
    /usr/lib/pp/pp.start & (echo \-n ' pp') > /dev/console
fi
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp
There are some examples of this start-up script in the config directory.
.SS NOTE
If you wish to use smtp then it may be appropriate to start the smtp
server for \fI/etc/inetd\fP by adding a suitable line to
\fB/etc/inetd.conf\fP. See Volume 1 for more details, but the basic
format is something like:
.sp
.in +.75i
.ti -.25i
smtp stream \%tcp \%nowait \%pp \%/usr/lib/pp/cmds/chans/smtpd \%smtpd
\%/usr/lib/pp/cmds/chans/smtpsrvr \%smtp
.in -.75i
.sp
.PP
To allow processes to contact the \fBqmgr\fP you must add a line to your
isoentities file,
.sp
.in +.5in
pickle "pp qmgr" 1.17.6.2.1 #1001/Internet=pickle+18000
.in -.5in
.PP
You will need to replace \*(lqpickle\*(rq by your local host, and you
may need to change the isomacro \*(lqInternet\*(rq to something else
if you have a local ethernet or similar.
.PP
Alternatively you may add a suitable entry to the directory if this is
being used as a nameserver. Some samples are given below the
\fBexamples\fP directory.
.PP
Then to install the following each-time activity is:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
% su
Password:
# ./make install
.fi
.in -.5i
.PP
If you plan to run the \fBMTAconsole\fP program (and you should!) you
will need to install the application defaults file. This is in the
\fBMTAconsole\fP directory and it should be installed as
\fBMTAconsole\fP in the \fBapp-defaults\fP directory in your X
hierarchy. For instance:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
# cd Src/MTAconsole
# cp MTAconsole.ad /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/MTAconsole
.fi
.in -.5i
.PP
The same is true of the user utility \fBxalert\fP. This has a similar
set of application defaults that should be installed.
.PP
That's about it.  This will install everything.
To clean-up the source tree as well,
then use:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
% make clean
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp
at this point. (However, unless you are very tight for space save this
step until you are sure things are working.)
.PP
If this is the first time you have used PP it is worth picking one of
the example configurations in the \fBexamples/\fP directory. Choose a
sample that is close to your requirements as a starting point. The
available samples are
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
.ta \w'LOCALSMTP\0\0'u
LOCALSMTP	Very simple local smtp only
JANET	A simple JANET configuration
INTERNET	A simple Internet site
.re
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp
Change to one of these directories, and read the README there. This
will tell you to do various things, depending on what configuration
you have chosen. Remember, this is only an example and will not deal
with all your needs.
.PP
After all is set up, and at regular intervals, you should check all is
ok by running \fIckconfig\fP (found in the tools directory) which will
check things are installed correctly.
.PP
Finally, if you are interested in discussing PP with others running
the software, drop a note to the Janet mailbox
\*(lqpp\-people\-request@cs.ucl.ac.uk\*(rq, and ask to be added to the
\*(lqpp-people@cs.ucl.ac.uk\*(rq list.
.SH TAILORING
Tailoring is an essential part of running PP. This is somewhat complex
to achieve the correct setup and so is described in Volume 1 of the PP
manual. It is important that this is followed carefully.
.SH "GENERATING DOCUMENTATION"
The directory \fBdoc/\fR contains the documentation set for this
release.  Consult the file \fBdoc/READ\-ME\fR for a description of
each document.  The directory \fBdoc/ps/\fR contains PostScript
versions of each document.  These can be used to generate standard
documentation on PostScript printers, but users who want to preview
the documentation should generate the .dvi files from the SLiTeX and
LaTeX sources.
.PP
If you received this distribution from the network,
then the directory \fBdoc/ps/\fR does not contain any PostScript files.
There should be a separate compressed \fItar\fR file,
containing only PostScript files,
available on the machine where you retrieved this distribution.
.SH "REPORTING PROBLEMS"
Comments concerning this release should be directed to the authors.
Consult the preface in the \fIUser's Manual\fR for a current postal
address.  Alternately, if you have access to the Janet network,
comments may be sent to the mailbox
\*(lqpp\-support@cs.ucl.ac.uk\*(rq.  Do \fBnot\fR send bug reports to
the pp-people discussion group.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ckconfig(8), dbmbuild(8)
.br
\fIThe PP Manual: Volume 1 \- Installation and Operation\fR

