.TH QMGR 8
.\" @(#) $Header: /xtel/pp/pp-beta/man/man8/RCS/qmgr.8,v 6.0 1991/12/18 20:44:03 jpo Rel $
.\"
.\" $Log: qmgr.8,v $
.\" Revision 6.0  1991/12/18  20:44:03  jpo
.\" Release 6.0
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
qmgr \- the PP queue manager process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
/usr/lib/pp/qmgr
\%[\-D] \%[\-d\ debris_time] \%[\-l\ load_time] \%[\-c\ cache_time]
\%[\-t\ timeout_time] \%[\-m\ nchans] \%[\-s] \%[\-M]
.in -.5i
(under rc.local)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Qmgr
is the controlling process for the PP message system. It is
responsible for the scheduling of all the messages in the queue and is
also the information base for the knowledge about the PP queues.
.PP
.I Qmgr
is normally invoked at boot time from the file \fI/etc/rc.local\fP to
initialise the queue and start things running.
When invoked, the \fIqmgr\fP listens on an set of NSAP connections
awaiting queries and updates. At the same time it starts a channel
designed to load information into the qmgr.
.PP
The \fIQmgr\fP responds to the following flags
.TP
\-D
When initialising the channels, set all channels to disabled. If this
switch is set, then no channels will be run until they are enabled by
the \fIMTAconsole\fP or similar.
.TP
\-d time
The amount of time (in hours) between successive runs of the debris
cleanout channel. By default, this channel runs every 3 hours.
.TP
\-l time
The amount of time in hours between successive runs of the qmgr
loading channel. This channel is run every so often to check
consistency between the queue on disc and in memory. The default is
every 6 hours.
.TP
\-t time
The amount of time in hours between successive runs of the timeout
process. This is run every so often to check the queue for messages
that have timed out. The default is every 12 hours.
.TP
\-c time
Set the default cache time (in seconds) for channels. This defaults to
5 minutes. This is the time a channel will be cached for initially.
Multiple failures keep doubling this number up to a maximum 6 times.
.TP
\-m nchans
Sets the maximum number of channels that can be running at one time.
This should be greater than 0! The default is 6.
.TP
\-s
This sets the inhibit submission flag. If this is set, the \fIqmgr\fP
will still accept incoming submissions but will otherwise ignore them.
.TP
\-M
Allow the msg-clean process to run whilst the qmgr is loading. This
allows a possible race condition but is a big win for very large queues.
.SH FILES
/etc/rc.local
.SH "SEE ALSO"
MTAconsole(1)
.br
\fIThe PP Manual: Volume 1 \- Installation and Operation\fP
.SH BUGS
Probably lots...
