.TH TJOIN 8
.\" @(#) $Header: /xtel/pp/pp-beta/man/man8/RCS/tjoin.8,v 6.0 1991/12/18 20:44:03 jpo Rel $
.\"
.\" $Log: tjoin.8,v $
.\" Revision 6.0  1991/12/18  20:44:03  jpo
.\" Release 6.0
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
tjoin \- Unrolls the Application Relays.
.SH SYNOPSIS
tjoin \%[-d] local-domain-name channel-names... < input-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tjoin
is a lexical program that is used to construct the
.I channel
table residing in the PP table directory.  
.PP
.I Tjoin
performs a number of transformations on the data.
.PP
It firstly fills in all
missing channels. If mail to one host must first be sent to another
host, 
.I tjoin
will expand this to the correct form and fill in the appropriate
channel.
.PP
Secondly, it removes references to the local domain name specified in
the first parameter.
.PP
Thirdly, it sorts the hosts with multiple channels into the preferred
order given on the command line. The order is the same order as the
channel-names parameters.
.PP
Tjoin responds to several flags.
.TP
\-d
Prefer direct routes to hosts over the ordering given on the command
line. E.g. if there are two channels to a host, and one is direct and
the other goes via an intermediary always prrefer the first one. This
should be the nromal setting.
.TP
\-c
Produce a more complex output, this may save a little space, but is
probably not worth while and is untested.
.TP
\-r
put route entries in the output. This option should not be used other
than for debuging
.PP
The normal procedure is to run with the \-d flag enabled.
.SH FILES
channel in the tbldfldir.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIThe PP Manual: Volume 1 \- Installation and Operation\fP
