.\" @(#) $Header: /xtel/pp/pp-beta/man/man1/RCS/dl.1,v 6.0 1991/12/18 20:43:41 jpo Rel $
.\"
.\" $Log: dl.1,v $
.\" Revision 6.0  1991/12/18  20:43:41  jpo
.\" Release 6.0
.\"
.\"
.TH DL 1
.SH NAME
dl \- X.500 Directory Based Distribution List Management tool.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
dl
\%[\-u\0distinguished-name] 
\%[\-c\0name-or-address] 
\%[-m]
\%[-q]
\%[-p]
\%[-v]
\%[listname]
.br
.in -.5i
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I dl
program is used to modify the list specified on the command line.
If no list is specified, dl enters an
interactive mode prompting the user for lists to modify.
When modifying a list, \fIdl\fR allows the user to create, add,
remove, display, and check distribution lists via menu items.
.PP
Lists can also be created or converted from file based lists using
this tool.
.PP
The `\-u' flag is used to change the default distinguished name of the user
the specified name, the default is read from \fI.quipurc\fR.
.PP
The `\-c' flag is used to specify the name or address of the DSA to
call.
.PP
The `\-p' flag is used to ask for the list to be printed, then dl will exit.
.PP
The `\-q' flag put dl into "quiet" mode.  This is particularly useful
when running with the `\-v' flag.
.PP
The `\-m' flag is used to persuade \fIdl\fR that the user bound does
have sufficient access rights to modify the directory based list.
This is useful for directory managers.
.PP
The `\-v' flag asks dl the verify the specified list (or all local lists in
none specified). If is useful to run with this option from cron(1) at
reqular intervals to detect any changed mail addresses.
If used with the `\-m' flag, out of date addresses are modified.
.SH ATTRIBUTE SYNTAXES
.PP
There are various attribute syntaxes defined in addition to the standard 
syntaxes used by \fIdish\fR.
The most important of these is the  \fIORName\fR syntax, used for the
\fImhsDLMembers\fR attribute.
.PP
An ORName consists of an optional directory name, and an ORAddress.
The two components are seperated by a `$' thus:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
ORName ::= [<DirectoryName>] [$ <ORAddress>]
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp
The DirectoryName is either a Quipu style Distinguished 
Name, or a name in Steve Kille's user-friendly notation.
This notation is ordered but untyped,
with components separated by commas.
Typical names include:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
kille, cs, ucl
rose, psi, USA
L. Eagle, \*(lqSue, Grabbit and Runn\*(rq, GB
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp
The ORaddress is an X.400 style mail address.
If a DirectoryName is supplied, the the ORAdress can be omitted, 
\fIdl\fR will fill it in by looking at the mail attributes of the entry for
`DirectoryName' in the X.500 directory.
.sp
.SH FILES
.nf
\*(EDdsaptailor	system QUIPU tailoring file
$HOME/\&.quipurc	user's QUIPU tailoring file
\*(EDufnrc	system UFN runcom file
$HOME/\&.ufnrc	user's UFN runcom file
.re
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The PP Manual: Volume 3 \- Users Guide,
.br
Using the OSI Directory to achieve User Friendly Naming,
.br
dish(1c).
.SH AUTHOR
Colin Robbins,
University College London
