.TH FLAGMAIL 1
.\" @(#) $Header: /xtel/pp/pp-beta/man/man1/RCS/flagmail.1,v 6.0 1991/12/18 20:43:41 jpo Rel $
.\"
.\" $Log: flagmail.1,v $
.\" Revision 6.0  1991/12/18  20:43:41  jpo
.\" Release 6.0
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
flagmail \- interface to xalert
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
flagmail
\%[-d] \%[-e\ string] \%[-f\ format] \%[-h\ hostfile] \%[-p num]
\%[-s\ size] \%[-w\ width] \%[\-x]
.in -.5i
.SH DESCRIPTION
Flagmail is an interface to the \fIxalert\fP program, which runs under
the X windowing system. It's task is to build up a alert message from
a message read from the standard input and pass it to the \fIxalert\fP
for display.  In actual fact, \fIflagmail\fP is not limited to talking
to \fIxalert\fP but can talk to any process that understands the
protocol and listens on the appropriate port.
.PP
If it can not contact such an X server, then it will attempt to locate
the users terminal line and notify that in the same manner as
\fIttyalert\fP.
.PP
It has several options to control the format.
.TP
\-d
Run in debug mode. This stops the process disappearing into the
background at the first opportunity.
.TP
\-e string
Set the \fIextra\fP variable. This is used in part of the display
string and defaults to \*(lqNEW: \*(rq.
.TP
\-f format
This allows overriding the default format of the message displayed.
.TP
\-h hostfile
This changes the file that is read to discover the host xalert is
running on.
.TP
\-p number
Change the default udp port that is sent to.
.TP
\-s size
This sets the \fIsize\fP variable which can be set in the
\&\fI.mailfilter\fP delivery script (typically using the
\*(lq$(size)\*(rq variable).
.TP
\-w width
This sets the maximum width of the output line. The string is
truncated to this width.
.TP
\-x 
Force the use of protocol.
.PP
The default display string is the following
.sp
.ti +.5i
.nf
%extra(%size) %20from %subject << %50body
.fi
.sp
.SH FILES
.ta \w'~/.alert\0\0'u
~/.alert	The default alert file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xalert(1), ttyalert(1)
.br
\fIPP Manual \- Volume 3: User Manual\fP
.SH "BUGS"
The formatting string ought to be more general.
