.TH NTAIL 1L
.\" @(#) $Header: /xtel/pp/pp-beta/man/man1/RCS/ntail.1,v 6.0 1991/12/18 20:43:41 jpo Rel $
.\"
.\" $Log: ntail.1,v $
.\" Revision 6.0  1991/12/18  20:43:41  jpo
.\" Release 6.0
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
ntaiL - Watch the growth of files.
.SH SYNTAX
.B ntail
entry ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ntail
monitors one or more files, and displays all data written to a file
since command invocation.  It is very useful for monitoring multiple
logfiles simultaneously.
.P
If an
.I entry
given on the command line is a directory, all files in that directory
will be monitored, including those created after the
.I ntail
invocation.  If an
.I entry
given on the command line doesn't exist,
.I ntail
will watch for it and monitor it once created.  When switching files in
the display, a banner showing the pathname of the file is printed.
.P
An interrupt character (usually CTRL/C or DEL) will display a list of the
most recently modified files being watched.  Send a quit signal
(usually CTRL/backslash) to stop
.IR ntail .
.SH SEE ALSO
tail(1)
.SH NOTES
.I Ntail
may be easily confused.  For example, if a file is renamed,
.I ntail
may or may not continue to monitor it.  If you ask it to monitor a file
multiple times, it probably will.  If you misspell a filename,
.I ntail
will treat it as a nonexistent entry and happily wait for its creation.
.P
My favorite use is "ntail /usr/spool/uucp/.Log/*".
.br
Ntail was originally called xtail, and was changed for reasons you don't
want to know about...
.SH AUTHOR
Chip Rosenthal <chip@vector.Dallas.TX.US>
