.TH RCVTRIP 1
.\" @(#) $Header: /xtel/pp/pp-beta/man/man1/RCS/rcvtrip.1,v 6.0 1991/12/18 20:43:41 jpo Rel $
.\"
.\" $Log: rcvtrip.1,v $
.\" Revision 6.0  1991/12/18  20:43:41  jpo
.\" Release 6.0
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
rcvtrip \- answerphone for mail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
rcvtrip \%[\-dF] \%[\-e\ exit] \%[\-f\ from] \%[\-l\ file] 
\%[\-n\ file] \%[-s\ sigfile] \%[\-t\ text] \%[\-u\ user]
.in -.5i
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rcvtrip
is a process that is normally run from the user \fB.mailfilter\fP
file. It answers incoming mail with a user defined message usually
informing the sender that the recipient is on vacation or similar.
.PP
It normally checks to see if the message specifies the user in the To:
or Cc: lines and will not reply otherwise. It also checks and updates
a database file to see if this user has been replied to already. It
will normally only reply to a given user once.
.PP
It has several options to modify it's behaviour.
.TP
\-d
run in debug mode.
.TP
\-F
Always reply to the message, even if the message is not sent directly
to the user.
\-e\ value
set the exit code depending on this value. If the value is 0, the exit
code is always bad. If the value is 1, the exit code is always good.
An value of 2 will give an exit value of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 99 if the
message was sent; not sent because duplicate; not sent because not
sent to user; parse error; other; respectively.
.TP
\-f\ from
Set the free form text of the from address to this value (default is
MESSAGE AGENT).
.TP
\-l\ file
Set the database file to this file name.
.TP
\-n\ file
Use this file as the text of the message to send back after standard
preamble. 
.TP
\-s\ file
Use this file to determine the users signature, which is appended to
the preamble.
.TP
\-t\ text
Modify the preamble with this line. There may be several of these
arguments in which case they are concatenated.
.TP
\-u\ user
Pretend to be this user when answering.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'.signature\0\0'u
\&.signature	default signature file
tripnote	default trip note file
triplog		database of incoming messages
\&.mailfilter	the mailfilter processing file
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIPP Manual \- Volume 3: User Manual\fP
.SH "BUGS"
