.TH TTYBIFF 1
.\" @(#) $Header: /xtel/pp/pp-beta/man/man1/RCS/ttybiff.1,v 6.0 1991/12/18 20:43:41 jpo Rel $
.\"
.\" $Log: ttybiff.1,v $
.\" Revision 6.0  1991/12/18  20:43:41  jpo
.\" Release 6.0
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
ttybiff \- display new mail alerts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
ttybiff \%[-f\ file] \%[-u\ user] \%[-p\ number] \%[-s]
.in -.5i
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is subsimed by xalert and will probably disappear from
future releases.
.PP
Ttybiff is a simple program designed to display new message alerts on
a users terminal. It does very little else, relying on its client to
do all the hard work. It is normally run in the background. it
displays the message on all terminals the user is logged onto on the
current machine, or if that fails to the standard output.
.PP
It has the following options
.TP
\-f file set the alert filename that \fIttybiff\fP and
\fIflagmail\fP communicate via. This defaults to the file \fB.alert\fP
in your home directory. This file is created by \fIttybiff\fP and read
by \fIflagmail\fP
.TP
\-u username
Allows you to pretend to be the given user. This does not really do
much as you will generally only get notified of messages to you, but
it may be useful.
.TP
\-p number
Change the default udp port that \fIttybiff\fP and \fIflagmail\fP
communicate via (normally assigned by the system).
.TP
\-s
Only display on the standard output, not on all terminals that the
user is logged into.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'~/.alert\0\0'u
~/.alert	The default alert file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
flagmail(1), ttyalert(1)
.br
\fIPP Manual \- Volume 3: User Manual\fP
.SH "BUGS"
