.TH XALERT 1
.\" @(#) $Header: /xtel/pp/pp-beta/man/man1/RCS/xalert.1,v 6.0 1991/12/18 20:43:41 jpo Rel $
.\"
.\" $Log: xalert.1,v $
.\" Revision 6.0  1991/12/18  20:43:41  jpo
.\" Release 6.0
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
xalert \- display new mail alerts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
xalert \%[\-filename\ file] \%[\-user\ user] \%[\-port\ number]
\%[\-bell] \%[\-nobell] \%[\-autoraise] \%[\-noautoraise]
\%[\-photos] \%[\-nophotos]
\%[\-s] \%[\-t] \%[\-x] \%[\-w\ width]
\%[generic\ X\ options]
.in -.5i
.SH DESCRIPTION
Xalert is a simple program designed to display new message alerts on a
display running the X windowing system. it does very little else,
relying on its client to do all the hard work. The program normally
tries to start as an X client. If this fails it acceps new messages
from the client and displays them to the users terminal.
.PP
It has the following options
.TP
\-filename file set the alert filename that \fIxalert\fP and
\fIflagmail\fP communicate via. This defaults to the file \fB.alert\fP
in your home directory. This file is created by \fIxalert\fP and read
by \fIflagmail\fP. This is also settable via the X resource string fileName.
.TP
\-user username
Allows you to pretend to be the given user. This does not really do
much as you will generally only get notified of messages to you, but
it may be useful. This is settable by the X resource string userName.
.TP
\-port number
Change the default udp port that \fIxalert\fP and \fIflagmail\fP
communicate via (normally selected by the system). This is settable by
the X resource integer port.
.TP
\-bell / \-nobell
Ring or don't ring the bell when a new message arrives. This is settable by
the X resource boolean bell
.TP
\-autoraise / \-noautoraise Raise or don't raise the window to the top
of the stack on each new message. This is settable by the X resource
boolean autoRaise.
.TP
\-photos / \-nophotos
Display the senders photograph as retrieved from the directory on each
new message. This is settable by the X resource boolean photos.
.TP
\-s
Only attempt to print to the standard output - do not search for all
occurances of this user logged in.
.TP
\-t
Do not attempt to start as an X client.
.TP
\-x
Allow use of X.
.TP
\-w\ width
Truncate to this width when displaying on terminals.
.PP
It is also quite useful as a clipboard...
.SH FILES
.ta \w'~/.alert\0\0'u
~/.alert	The default alert file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
flagmail(1), ttyalert(1)
.br
\fIPP Manual \- Volume 3: User Manual\fP
.SH "BUGS"
Ought to sing, dance and make coffee.
.br
Sometimes searching for a photograph can take a while - especially if
the photo is big!
